Peter Every

(about me: https://www.facebook.com/PeterEveryMusic )

OK. I don't have permission for this. (Do I need permission?).

Many years ago I realised that making music would not become my life occupation. It served me well, performing 4 nights a week for six years allowed me to be free to raise my children but also to return to study. In the end I became an academic and this is now my 'day job'. But with the realisation that my music was not, now, an economic element of my life came an amazing freedom. I resolved to stop 'owning' my output. The internet came along and allowed me to post out my music to whoever might listen. Along with that came the development of new models of copyright. If you haven't done so already, you really should read and understand the implications of what is called 'Creative Commons'. The ability to gift your art, for it to be shared, whilst retaining important rights to prevent it being misused.

Anyway. Gifting. It's fun. Find another artist and give them a piece of your work. Literally! Send it to them and say 'it's yours! Do what you will". Here is an example of what can happen. The following piece I released in 2009. Last week I receive it back, altered by an artist in Belgium. He sends me a note (and his guitar performance) could I remix the work and include his guitar. It takes me hours to track down the original master recordings (note to self: get organised!!) but in the end I find the multi-track, paste in Johan's guitar and in the process completely retake/mutate the original. I send it back to him. A week later, this arrives (see video). I have remonstrated with Johan to take my name off the work. It is his work now. 

So, the challenge. Take a poem, a painting, a graphic work, an animation, a dance, a film. Identify another artist (maybe on this group?) and give your work to them. Renounce your rights, let it go. See what comes back.

Peter Every / Johan Troch "Flying With Two Hands"

http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pRplwwogui0

An interactive dance and media performance conceived and directed by Klaus Obermaier 
